Update docs on building and hosting Docker images (#640)
broadinstitute/gatk-sv: website/docs/advanced/docker/automated.md

 

 </TabItem>
 <TabItem value="gcr">

 [gatk-sv/inputs/values/dockers.json](https://github.com/broadinstitute/gatk-sv/blob/main/inputs/values/dockers.json)
 

 </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::info
The detailed explanation of the automation workflow provided on this page
is intended for users who need to configure the CI/CD workflow on
their own fork of GATK-SV's GitHub repository to host Docker images on 
their own container registries.

If you only need the list of latest Docker images, you may refer to the above-listed files.
:::

## Workflow Layout

The automation workflow is defined in 
[`sv_pipeline.yml`](https://github.com/broadinstitute/gatk-sv/blob/main/.github/workflows/sv_pipeline_docker.yml), 
and it utilizes the 
[`build_docker.py`](https://github.com/broadinstitute/gatk-sv/blob/main/scripts/docker/build_docker.py)
script for building and publishing Docker images.
The workflow consists of three 
[_jobs_](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobs) 
discussed in the following sections.

- [Determine build arguments](#args);
- [Regression testing](#build) (pull request and merge);

> - [Publishing Docker images](#publish) (merge only).

Author: Agreed, it makes it read better.

This job fails if it fails to build the Docker images, 
and the images it builds are discarded when the job finishes.

### Publishing Docker Images {#publish}

This job is triggered when **a pull request is merged or a commit is pushed to the `main` branch.**
Similar to the [`Test Images Build`](#build) job, 
it builds Docker images; however, in addition, 
this job also pushes the built images to the GCR and ACR, 
and updates their list. 
The job fails if it cannot successfully run all the steps.
Specifically, it takes the following steps.
  

- **Login**
  to container registries in order to push the built images.
  The job obtains authorization to push to Google and Azure container registries 
  by assuming a Google service account and an Azure service principal, respectively. 
  The credentials required to assume these identities are defined as 
  [encrypted environment secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets).

- **Build and publish to ACR and GCR**:
  Similar to the [build job](#build), this job builds Docker images 
  based on the list of changed files specified using the 

>   `HEAD` and `BASE` commit SHA. However, in addition, it pushes the 
>   built images to both ACR and GCR. It's important to note 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `HEAD` and `BASE` commit SHA. It's important to note 
```

>   that the images pushed to GCR and ACR are identical, and they only differ in their tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  that the images pushed to GCR and ACR are identical and only differ in their tags.
```

- **Update the list of published images**:
  Once the newly built images are successfully pushed, 
  this job updates the JSON files containing the list of images (i.e., `dockers*.json`),

>   and commit and push the changes to the `main` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  and commits and pushes the changes to the `main` branch.
```

>   To achieve this, we use a _bot_ account; specifically:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To achieve this, we use a _bot_ account that performs the following actions:
```

>   - Login to git using the bot's Personal Access Token (PAT)
>     in order to authorize it to push to the `main` branch.
>   
>   - Configure the Git installation in the GitHub Actions VMs using the _bot_'s credentials. 
> 
>   - Commit the changed files. The commit message references the 
>     Git commit that triggered the [publish](#publish) job. 
>   
>   - Push the commit to the main branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  a. Login to git using the bot's Personal Access Token (PAT)
    in order to authorize it to push to the `main` branch.
  
  b. Configure the Git installation in the GitHub Actions VMs using the _bot_'s credentials. 

  c. Commit the changed files. The commit message references the 
    Git commit that triggered the [publish](#publish) job. 
  
  d. Push the commit to the main branch.
```
